                                                                      Act No. : 1 of 2024

           INTERNAL COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

The following Act received the assent from the Internal Compliance Committee on 3rd May,
2024.



                 First Constitution Amendment Act, 2024

           Further to amend the Constitution of Service to Mankind Welfare Association

       BE IT ENACTED by the boards in the Second Year of the Service to Mankind Welfare
Association as follows:

   1. This Act also called the “Membership Act, 2024”
   2. Amendment to Article 6, clause 1,2,3,4 and 5:


       6. STM Roles
       (1) Board Member: Any person who is willing to serve society and abide by the rules
       and regulations of the NGO to work in STM for lifetime.
       (2) Intermediate Board Member: Any person who is willing to serve society and abide
       by the rules and regulations of the NGO to work in STM for lifetime under the board.
       (3) Unit Board Member: Any person who is willing to serve society and abide by the
       rules and regulations of the NGO to work in STM in their respective unit within their
       academic life.
       (4) Coordinator: Any person who is willing to serve society and abide by the rules and
       regulations of the NGO to work in the STM in their respective unit within their
       academic life.
       (5) Volunteer: Any person who is willing to serve society and abide by the rules and
       regulations of the NGO to do service.

   3. Amendment to Article 7, clause 4 and 6:

       7. Membership
       (4) Any person who donates at least INR 30 (Rupees Thirty Only) shall be called
       ''STM DONOR''.



      Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                   Website:- www.stmorg.in
      (6) (a) 6. If a member is found inactive or nonperforming, the member would be
      termed as inactive member in writing. The member will be under a performance plan
      with a notice of 2 months from the date of declaration to improve their performance to
      a satisfactory level. Failure to do so will result in termination.
          (b)The Board member has authority to terminate or revoke the status of any
      member. The Intermediate board can terminate or revoke the membership of any
      member of units and the Unit Head can terminate or revoke the membership of a
      member within a unit with written approval from the Internal Compliance coordinator
      in writing for any reason stated in the suspension or termination article.

   4. Amendment to Article 9:

      9. Board Members
      (1) The board members are responsible for proper functioning of the NGO by guiding
      IBM.
      (2) The board members are responsible for all activities of the NGO, but they are not
      held responsible for any activity undertaken by any member without informing the
      authorized person.
      (3) Any new establishments and any modifications shall be done with the final
      document approval of the board.
      (4) Board holds the ultimate powers over the STM and its final decisions
      (5) The board consists of the following members:
                  1. President
                  2. Vice President
                  3. General Secretary
                  4. Treasurer
                  5. Joint Secretary
                  6. Executive Members
      (6) All the board members should abide by the rules and regulations of the NGO and
      work according to the constitution of the NGO and by-laws of the NGO.

5. Amendment to Article 10:

      10. Intermediate Board Members
      (1) Eligibility
           Any person who has been selfless service to the NGO and abides by the rules and
           regulations of the NGO is eligible to become an IBM.
      (2) Selection Process
      The selection process for the IBM is as follows:


      Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                   Website:- www.stmorg.in
           1. The person should fill out the application form for IBM.
           2. The person will engage in recruitment rounds conducted by the board.
           3. The person should be selected by the board.
      (3) Roles and Responsibilities
                 The Intermediate Board Members are responsible for proper functioning of
      STM units. IBM should abide by the rules and regulations of the NGO and work
      according to the constitution.
      The IBM are as follows:
           1. Human Resources Coordinator : The Human Resources coordinator is
              responsible for all activities of the recruitment process and internship
              programs of the NGO.
           2. Finance Coordinator: The Finance coordinator is responsible for all financial
              activities of the NGO and needs to submit the details time to time to the
              Treasurer. The annual report of the NGO should be submitted to the board.
           3. Designing Coordinator: The Designing coordinator is responsible for all
              graphics designing activities of the NGO. They are responsible for
              maintaining high quality designs.
           4. Public Relations Coordinator: The Public Relations coordinator is
              responsible for all public relations activities of the NGO.
           5. Technical Coordinator: The Technical coordinator is responsible for all
              technical activities of the NGO and maintains the high quality of the
              technical work.. The coordinator needs to promote the open source
              technologies of the NGO.
           6. Internal Compliance Coordinator: The Internal Compliance coordinator is
              responsible to ensure that members are acting in accordance with the
              constitution and guidelines of the NGO. They can take any action on any
              member if they are not following the constitution and guidelines of the
              NGO.
           7. Operations Coordinator: The Operations Coordinator is responsible for day
              to day operations of the NGO.
           8. Documentation Coordinator: The Documentation Coordinator is responsible
              for all documents of the NGO and to maintain all documents secured.

6. Amendment to Article 11:

      11. Units
             (1) (a) The units of the NGO which are established in the colleges. Every unit
           consists a board with following members:
                              1. Head


      Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                   Website:- www.stmorg.in
                               2. Vice Head
                               3. Operations Department Head
                               4. Donations Department Head
                               5. Technical Department Head
                               6. Content and Report writing Department Head
                               7. Research and Development Department Head
                               8. Graphics Department Head
       (b) All the members of the Unit should abide by the rules and regulations of the NGO
       and work according to the constitution.
       (c) Coordinators are recruited every year through a selection process wherein the
       candidates are filtered through rounds and are recruited based on the criteria of the
       STM.
       (d) Unselected candidates can still contribute as volunteers for the STM.
       (2) Establishment
       To establish a unit in a college, the following conditions should be satisfied:
          (a) There should be at least 10 people in the college who are willing to work for
              the NGO.
          (b) The head of the unit must consult the IBM-Human Resources Coordinator
          (c) The head of the unit must fill the application form for the college unit.
          (d) The head of the unit must attend the interview conducted by the IBM-Human
       Resources Coordinator

7. Amendment to Article 12:

       12. Alumni
     (1) “Alumni” refers to the member who has previously worked with the NGO.

8. Insertion of new Article 18 - Suspension/Termination:

       18. Suspension/Termination
       (1) The Internal Compliance coordinator holds the right to suspend or terminate any
       member if they violate the constitution or guidelines in any way.
       (2) Any member defaming the NGO in any form will be terminated.
       (3) Any member of the NGO using the funds for personal/mismanagement, fake bills
       and any finance related issues will be terminated and face legal prosecutions.
       (4) Any member of the NGO doing fraudulent works, misbehaving with a member
       and making false allegations against any member will be terminated.




      Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                   Website:- www.stmorg.in
   (5) Any member who does not respond to calls/messages/emails for 2 days will be
   warned. If the same instance repeats and fails to inform the reason, he will be
   suspended/terminated.
   (6) Suspension or termination only happens after receiving a confirmation letter from
   the Internal Compliance Coordinator.



              STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS

1. Article 6, clause 1,2,3,4,& 5 are modified for better readability.
2. Article 7, clause (4) revised the donor's term.
   Clause (6), Sub-clause (a),Point 6 reduces the performance period where deemed
   unnecessary.
   Clause 6, Sub-clause (b) authorises the Internal Compliance Coordinator to review the
   validity of termination orders, aiming to prevent any wrongful terminations.
3. Article 9 has been amended to provide an explanation of the duties of the board.
4. Article 10 has been amended to provide clarity on the duties of intermediate board
   members and the position of volunteer coordinator has been removed to optimise
   operational efficiency.
5. Article 11 has been amended to provide clarity on the membership composition of the
   unit and the Human Resources Coordinator will oversee the establishment of units as
   part of the coordinator's duty.
6. Article 12 has been modified for better readability.
7. Article 18 has been inserted to specify the circumstances under which a member may
   be removed from the organization.


                                         —————


                                                                             P. Priya,
                                          Internal Compliance Coordinator of the STM




   Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                Website:- www.stmorg.in
