                                                                     Act No. : 2 of 2024

              INTERNAL COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

The following Act received the assent from the Internal Compliance Committee on 3rd May,
2024.



                Second Constitution Amendment Act, 2024

           Further to amend the Constitution of Service to Mankind Welfare Association

       BE IT ENACTED by the boards in the Second Year of the Service to Mankind Welfare
Association as follows:

    1. Amendment of Preamble:
       Preamble
       SERVICE TO MANKIND is a non-governmental organization registered under the
       Telangana Society Registration Act, 2001, representing a student-run organization for
       individuals motivated to fulfill their obligation towards societal betterment and
       cultivate socially responsible individuals.

    2. Amendment to Article 3:

       3. Aim and Objectives
       To create a platform for students who have a motive to fulfill their obligation towards
       societal betterment by helping the underprivileged in every possible way.

    3. Amendment to Article 4:
.
       4. Mission statement
       To nurture socially responsible personalities who enlighten the lives of the
       underprivileged.

    4. Amendment to Article 5:

       5. Vision Statement



       Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                    Website:- www.stmorg.in
              To create a society where everyone has access to basic amenities and is treated
       equally.

   5. Amendment to Article 8:

       8. Internship
       Internship is a program where the students of the college are given an opportunity to
       work for the NGO and to learn the working of the NGO as a coordinator in the
       respective unit.
     1. Stipend
    There is no stipend for the internship program. But the coordinators will be provided
    with the certificate of internship in their respective units.
     2. Duration
    The duration of the internship program is two years.
     3. Eligibility
    Any student who is willing to serve the society and abide by the rules and regulations of
    the NGO is eligible to become an coordinator, according to the article 7.

    4. Selection Process
    The selection process for the internship program is as follows:
             1. The student should fill out the application form for the internship program.
             2. The student will engage in recruitment rounds conducted by the unit board.
             3. The student should be selected by the unit board.
     5. Roles and Responsibilities
    All the coordinators should abide by the rules and regulations of the NGO. The
    coordinator should work for the NGO in their respective departments for the betterment
    of the society.

6. Amendment to Article 16, clause 3:

16. Amendments
(3)All proposed amendments must be approved by a 2/3rd present and voting of the board of
the NGO, the intermediate board of the NGO and units of the NGO collectively.




      Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                   Website:- www.stmorg.in
7. Amendment to Article 17, clause 1:

17. Dissolution
(1)In an event that the NGO fails to function totally and needs to be dissolved, the whole
board of the NGO shall be dissolved. Else, the whole NGO shall be dissolved. The funds of
the NGO will be transferred to the same objectives of the NGO.

8. Amendment to Article 14 - Leaves:

   1. Sabbatical Leave
         1. Board and IBM members can apply for leave for 3 months to 1 year . The
             request letter must be sent to the board 48 hours prior to the leave day.
         2. If the leaves are proven to be false or invalid, a warning letter will be issued.

9. Insertion of new Article 20 - Meetings and Activities:

   1.   The board and IBM should hold a meeting with the unit periodically.
   2.   The unit board should meet every month.
   3.   The unit board should meet the coordinators periodically.
   4.   If any member did not attend the meeting, appropriate action shall be taken.


10. Amendment of Article 15 - Exit Process:

            (1) Voluntary
                (a) Any Member can opt out of working for an Organization by submitting the
                resignation letter to the Unit Head.
            (2) Involuntary
                (a) Member can be terminated based on article 7 and 18


               STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS

   1. Preamble is modified for better readability.
   2. Article 3,4 and 5 is modified for better readability.
   3. Article 8 has been amended to update the official nomenclature and reduce the
      duration of the internship program to two years by considering students' academic
      life.
   4. Article 16, Clause (3) has been amended with a 3/4th majority present and voting for
      bills to be enforced in time, and any changes shall be done in the presence of a
      meeting.

        Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                     Website:- www.stmorg.in
5. Article 14 amended for prior approval with a defined acceptance period to reduce the
   quick process of incomplete verification.
6. Article 20 has been inserted to include member participation in meetings and
   activities, for strong relations between members and engagement in activities.
7. Article 15 has been inserted to incorporate processes for both voluntary and
   involuntary exit.

                                     —————


                                                                              P. Priya,
                                          Internal Compliance Coordinator of the STM




   Flat no:- 25/24, Bowrampet, Quthbullapur (M), Medchal (D), Telangana State -500043
                                Website:- www.stmorg.in
